# DATA270_GWAR
# A Global Analysis and Prediction of Food Insecurity and Hunger Crisis Outbreaks Using Machine Learning
Food insecurity is the term used to describe the lack of availability of food for people across the world. The countries are determined to tackle this problem as this not only affects the people but also describes the ability of a country to provide basic needs to its citizens. There are existing studies on predicting food insecurity using machine learning methods but lack in utilizing novel algorithms, better data procurement, and regional-based analysis. These drawbacks are considered before the proposal of our system which overcomes shortcomings of the existing works and has objectives set on utilizing pre-and-post pandemic data on a global scale with diverse algorithms. The data is procured from four diverse sources which include information on food stamps, food trade data, poverty statistics, etc. The data collected is processed before feeding into the machine learning algorithms Prophet, Long short-term memory (LSTM), Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA), and Random Forest. The models are implemented and evaluated with the metrics Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), R-squared Score (R2 Score), and Explained Variance Score. The Random Forest holds the optimal metrics compared to other models with a 0.98 R2 Score and 0.98 Explained Variance Score. To conclude, the proposed system has novelty in the models used which also provides insights detailing the food scarcity and other factors like inflation aiding nations to act in order to avoid future risks of food deterioration along with this discussing post-pandemic timeline that supports countries to evaluate their food rations.
